
                      'I  HAVE  A  DREAM' 

   I say to you today, my friends, even though we face the 
difficulties of today and tomorrow, I still have a dream. 
It is a dream deeply rooted in the American dream. 
   
   I have a dream...
       that one day this nation will rise up and live out the
true meaning of its creed, "We hold these truths to be
self-evident; that all men are created equal."
 
   I have a dream...
       that one day on the red hills of Georgia the sons of former
slaves and the sons of former slave-owners will be able to sit
down together at the table of brotherhood. 

   I have a dream...
       that one day even the state of Mississippi, a state
sweltering with the heat of injustice and oppression, will be
transformed into an oasis of freedom and justice. 

   I Have A Dream...
       that my four little children will one day live in a nation
where they sill not be judged by the color of their skin but by
the content of their character, 

   I Have A Dream Today. 
   
   I HAVE A DREAM... that one day down in Alabama with its 
vicious racists, with its governor having his lips dripping with 
the words of interposition and nullification -- one day right 
there in Alabama, little black boys and black girls will be able 
to join hands with little white boys and white girls as sisters 
and brothers. 
   
   I HAVE A DREAM TODAY! 

   I HAVE A DREAM... that one day every valley shall be exalted, 
every hill and mountain shall be made low, the rough places will 
be made plain and the crooked places will be made straight, and  
glory of the Lord shall be revealed, and all flesh shall see it  
together. 

   This is our hope. This is the faith that I go back to the South 
with...

      With this faith we will be able to hew out of the mountain 
          of despair a stone of hope. 

      With this faith we will be able to transform the jangling   
          discords of our nation into a beautiful symphony of     
          brotherhood.

      With this faith we will be able to work together, to pray   
          together, to sit together, to go to jail together, 
          to stand up for freedom together, knowing that we will  
          be free one day. 



   This will be the day when all of God's children will be able to 
sing with new meaning: 

    My country 'tis of thee,          Land where my fathers died,
    Sweet land of liberty             Land of the pilgrims' pride,
    Of thee I sing;                   From every mountain-side 
                                      Let freedom ring. 

   And if America is to be a great nation, this must become true.
So let freedom ring from the prodigious hilltops of New Hampshire.
Let freedom ring from the mighty mountains of New York, let
freedom ring from the heightening Alleghenies of Pennsylvania. 
Let freedom ring from the snowcapped Rockies of Colorado. Let
freedom ring from the curvaceous slopes of California. But not
only that, let freedom ring from Stone Mountain of Georgia. 

   Let Freedom ring from Lookout Mountain of Tennessee. 

   Let Freedom ring from every hill an molehill of Mississippi,  
from every mountainside, let freedom ring. And when we allow
freedom to ring, when we let it ring from every village, from
every hamlet, from every state and every city, we will be able to
speed up that day when all of God's children, black men and white
men, Jews and Gentiles, Protestants and Catholics, will be able to
join hands and sing in the words of the old Negro spiritual: 

      "Free at last! 
          Free at last! 
             Thank God Almighty,
                we are FREE AT LAST!" 
  
                                       Rev. Martin Luther King Jr.
                                              August 28, 1963 

